(Cleaning my Internet access)
(Just by plugging a cable)
Let's assume that my internet
service provider is called FABOX
and that I've chosen one
of its common offers
At home, all my computers
are connect via Wifi to my box.
My problem is that I don't trust
my internet service provider a lot.
I know for example that it is able to
watch all my online activity
and that it might
sells those informations.
I also know it can decide what kind
of internet service I'm allowed to use.
we speak in this case of locked ports.
it can also choose which
website I'm able to see.
then we talk about
liar DNS
Finally I know it can take the initiative
to favor some destinations on the internet.
For instance to make
its own services
or those of its paying partners more efficient.
In that case, we call that
Net Neutralitiy violations.
But in the end my biggest
problem is that I'm unable
to know exactly what it is
doing with my Internet access.
Not only because it doesn't offer
any ethical charter about those matters
but also because its
way of operating is completely opaque.
Moreover, the general Term of Use
that I've signed with it
don't bind it to anything in that respect either
except, possibly, to officially not
respect my privacy.
The goal of this presentation
is to introduce you to
a simple and effective
solution to those problems.
An association which protect
a vision of the Internet
and of privacy
with which I agree,
gave me a little box.
We will call it
"the Internet Cube"
All *I* have to do to make it works
is to connect it on my Internet modem
From there, a new Wifi network will be available.
I can connect computers from my home
to this Wifi network
rather that the one of my ISP
that I was using before.
By being directly connected to the Cube
my ISP cannot
spy on my Internet activity anymore.
In reality, he will only see encrypted traffic
to the sever of my association,
we call this a VPN tunnel.
Thus, it can't either limit or restrain
my internet access.
My ISP is now in realty
my association
and my ISP is only one of many way I can
connect to it.
It is now a simple gateway to my association.
The IP addresses I use on
the Internet from now
are those of my association.
And for the geeks, I also now have native IPv6
on all my computers at home
without having anything to configure
For the others, just know that
the adoption of IPv6 is primordial
to keeping a sane Internet in the years to come
I can now easily configure my new Wifi access,
thanks to an easy to use UI
I can also freely switch from one association
to another by simply modifying
the configuration of my VPN tunnel,
using the informations it will gives me.
The UI are also available in French
If I chose to use another ISP because I found a better offer,
on a private sale website for example
I just have to disconnect my Cube from the previous box
and plug it into the new one.
my Wifi access stay available and works immediately
In the same way, without having anything to configure,
neither on my Cube
nor on my computer or anywhere else
if my ISP offer TV or Phone access,
I can still use them
and if my association has a temporary technical problem
I can still connect my computer on my old Wifi network
It will be a sort of downgraded Internet
access but still be available.
(Self Hosting)
(in a few clicks)
The Internet Cube not only
clean my Internet Access
Indeed, if I make the step to protect myself
against an ISP which I don't trust
it doesn't make much senses to use
this new Freedom enabled Internet
to give away my personal data,
to the servers of private enterprises
like Google, Facebook or others...
which proudly announce,
in their Terms of Use,
that they will exploit my private life.
the best place to store my emails
is in my own home
for example in a dresser drawer
rather than the computer
of someone else
that is what is commonly referred as the "cloud"
the Internet Cube also allows me to
easily do self-hosting
the Internet Cube, actually contains
a software
called YUNOHOST which allows
people with a bit of interested
in computers, but without necessarily being an expert,
to easily host, in their own homes,
their own internet services
available from anywhere in the world.
The user interface is also available in French.
Since YUNOHOST know, by default,
how to manage an email account
I could, for example,
install a Webmail interface
which will allow me to
easily read my emails
from my browser, like with Gmail, for example.
In a few clicks, I can install this service on my Cube
and immediately access
it from anywhere in the world
with, obviously, a secure
authentication, in that case.
There are many easy to
install services,
like Jappix to chat
using instant messaging,
Owncloud to share files
or even WordPress
to make my own blog.
By the way, the web interfaces
for the Wifi and the VPN that we just saw
are simple YUNOHOST applications
that are pre-installed.
Thanks to the VPN
tunnel of the Cube
my server is also mobile
I can plug it on any
Internet access
and my services will stay available.
If I change again my service provider
or if I go on holidays or if I want to cut
the power in my house, for example, I only
need to unplug my Internet Cube and to
plug it back anywhere else and it will work
again without the need for any reconfiguration.
At the DNS level, it's the IPs of my
association that are used to
contact my server
and those are fixed IPs.
I can even plug my Cube
on an particularly restrained access,
like a smartphone connected in 3 or 4G
for example
or an especially restricted enterprise network
.
For the geeks, again, wherever
I plug my Cube,
my services are also
available in IPv6.
(Where can I find this box?)
The FDN Federation is composed of associative
ISP who respect Net Neutrality,
your privacy and who provide,
increasingly, VPN services.
Some of those associations offer
their own plug'n play version of the Internet Cube
bundled with an optional automatic
domain name binding.
and encrypted storage
for automatic backup.
Since it is mandatory to
totally trust the provider
you will choose for this service.
The associations of the Federation are
spread all over France and
allow you to easily
meet their members
who are also generally their administrators.
In Belgium, the association Neutrinet,
who has also started this project
will gladly welcomes you.
In addition, if you wish, you can use
whichever computer you want
and a Wifi antenna to install
YUNOHOST by yourself.
and the 2 applications needed for
the Wifi and the VPN
since everything is FreeSoftware.
Then, you'll only have to choose
a VPN provider
and to configure the application.
The shown box cost 70€ all included
and an associative VPN service
cost around 7€ per month.
Combined with a classical Internet access
at 20€
the result is below 30€ per month
for a movable server
and a trusted associative Internet
access with TV and phone
from the original Internet Service Provider.
(Bonus)
(More and more!)
As a bonus, the Internet Cube can
be modified to offer many more features
as you may wish.
For example, without
using the VPN application,
it's also a solution to allow
everyone to easily and freely share
files during a public event.
We call this, as a provocative,
general label, a PirateBox
Also, the Cube with the Wifi on,
only consume 2 Watts at max
which is a lot less than a
commercial Box from any other ISP
so it may be paired easily with a battery
or a small solar panel
A battery costing only 12€ allows the Internet Cube
to have an autonomy of 13 hours
You can also configure it to deploy
a stand alone WIFI, clean and secured,
to be used in any public event.
Releasing the owner
of the Internet connection
of any legal claim
http://internetcu.be